# Guided project - Data exploration using SQL
Guide and original code courtesy of Alex Freberg https://github.com/AlexTheAnalyst
<h3>Data sources</h3>
This project uses datasets pulled from https://ourworldindata.org/covid-deaths containing data on deaths due to COVID-19 and COVID-19 vaccinations. Copies of the exact data files used have been uploaded to this repository as .xlsx files.
<h3>Skills used</h3>
This project was written and carried out using Excel for minor data cleaning and SQL Server Management Studio for everything else. This project is meant to showcase the following skills: joins, CTE's, temp tables, windows functions, aggregate functions, making views, converting data types via CAST() and CONVERT(). Data from this project was then visualized using a Tableau dashboard, which can be found here: https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/corinne.matthews/viz/COVIDInfectionandDeathRate/Dashboard1
<h3>Insights from data</h3> 
Although the pandemic has become less all-consuming over the last couple of years, data regarding the spread of COVID-19, its infectivity and lethality rates, and the rate at which vaccines are administered is still important and fascinating data to analyze. Analyzing datasets such as this one can help give direction to efforts to curb infection rates, increase vaccination rates and improve general public health and safety.<br><br>
From the analysis carried out with this project, based on the data, you can determine the relative likelihood that someone will contract COVID in a certain country or continent. You can see how likely someone who contracted COVID is to be sent to the hospital or intensive care unit, and you can observe vaccination rates in different countries and continents. From analysis of these datasets, we can also observe which countries have the highest infection and death rates with respect to their population. Findings such as these can be converted to visualizations that present the information in a more easy-to-digest way to stakeholders or the general population. <br>
